Add performance up to 2.14 blog (#2951)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2024-06-07-opensearch-performance-2.14.md

We are evaluating performance improvements using the [OpenSearch Big5 workload](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/tree/main/big5), which covers the types of queries common in search and log analytics, including text queries, sorting, term aggregations, range queries, and date histograms. This provides an objective and easy to replicate benchmark for performance work.

## Performance improvements through 2.14

> Since the inception of the OpenSearch Project, we have achieved significant speedups. 

Author: ```suggestion
Since the inception of the OpenSearch Project, we have achieved significant increases in speed. 
```

The following graph shows the relative improvements by category of query as the 90th percentile latencies, with a baseline of OpenSearch 1.0.  Every category here has improved considerably, some dramatically. Full numbers are available in the data appendix.

> The heavy green line summarizes the overall improvements as the geometric mean of the individual categories of improvement, showing continuous progress in performance.

Author: I think we can leave as is because there are 2 mentions of improvement in this sentence :)

For these applications, OpenSearch 2.12 introduced the [`match_only_text`](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/field-types/supported-field-types/match-only-text) field. This field type dramatically reduces the space needed for indexes and speeds query execution, because there is no complicated scoring for relevance ranking. At the same time, it supports all standard text query types except for interval and span queries.

**Using `match_only_text`, text queries are 47% faster in OpenSearch 2.12 than in 2.11 and 57% faster than OpenSearch 1.0**.

### Term aggregations

Term aggregations are an important tool in data analytics because they enable slicing and dicing data using multiple criteria. For example, you might want to group the brands, model years, and colors of the cars in your data.

OpenSearch 2.13 speeds up term aggregations for global term aggregations in immutable collections such as log data. This is an important and common use case for analytics. OpenSearch gains this efficiency by using the term frequencies that Lucene precalculates.

> **Evaluating term aggregations on Big5 data shows speed improvements of a factor of 85 to 100.**. 

Author: ```suggestion
**Evaluating term aggregations on Big5 data shows speed improvements of a factor of 85 to 100**. 
```

### Date histograms

> Date histograms are OpenSearch’s way of grouping data by date. Almost every Dashboard or Discover visualization in OpenSearch Dashboards depends on this functionality. For example, you might want to aggregate logs of every HTTP request to your site by week. **New optimizations for date histograms in OpenSearch 2.12 provide speed improvements ranging from 10 to 50 times on the Big5 benchmark**, in the common case where there are no sub-aggregations into range filters.

Reviewer: Can be changed to in

### Multi-term queries and numeric fields

> Multi-term queries are commonly used in analytics to aggregate by many terms at the same time, often retrieving only the top *n* results. **OpenSearch 2.12 accelerates multi-term queries on keyword fields by over 40%** by taking advantage of Lucene's IndexOrDocValuesQuery.

Author: I would leave as is.

We are planning the following enhancements: 

- Supporting fine-grained customer monitoring of query execution, allowing you to identify problematic queries, diagnose query execution bottlenecks and tune query performance.
- Optimizing common query execution infrastructure by developing multi-level caching (tiered caching); faster interconnections among components using an efficient binary format (Protobuf).
- Improving query execution itself, using document reordering to optimize query throughput and storage efficiency (graph bipartite partitioning); analyzing and rewriting complex queries to make them run more efficiently; dynamic pruning; count-only caching.
- Modularizing the query engine to make future improvements faster and easier.

### Hybrid search 

Hybrid search combines lexical and semantic vector search to get the best of both worlds. Highly specific names--- like part numbers---are best found using lexical search, while broader queries are often best handled by semantic vector search. We have supported hybrid search since OpenSearch 2.10. 

We are planning to enhance hybrid search in the following ways:

> - By executing the lexical and the vector searches in parallel, we can achieve up to a 25% latency improvement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- By executing lexical and vector searches in parallel, we can achieve a latency improvement of up to 25%.
```

> - We will support re-sorting of the hybrid query results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We will support resorting of hybrid query results.
```

> - We will support additional algorithms for combining the query results. In particular, reciprocal rank fusion has shown good results in some applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We will support additional algorithms for combining query results. In particular, reciprocal rank fusion has shown good results for some applications.
```

> - We will return the raw scores of the subqueries, which are useful for debugging and for relevance tuning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We will return the raw scores of subqueries, which are useful for debugging and relevance tuning.
```

> - We will return the raw scores of the subqueries, which are useful for debugging and for relevance tuning.

Reviewer 2: Nit: The bulleted list in this section uses a different syntax than the others.

### Vector search

> Semantic vector search is a powerful technique for finding semantic similiarities. However, it can be costly, because indexing vectors to make them efficient for search is time-consuming, and the vectors themselves can consume large amounts of memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Semantic vector search is a powerful technique for finding semantic similiarities. However, it can be costly because indexing vectors to make them efficient for search is time consuming, and the vectors themselves can consume large amounts of memory.
```

We are currently working on the following vector search improvements:

- Accelerating vector indexing by 80% and reducing the memory required for indexing.

> - Reducing the amount of space needed to store vectors by compressing vector components from 32 bits to 16, 8, and even 1 bit. Our experiments show modest reductions in search quality (recall) with 16 and 8 bit components; we are still analyzing the 1-bit case (binary quantization).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Reducing the amount of space needed to store vectors by compressing vector components from 32 bits to 16, 8, and even 1 bit. Our experiments show modest reductions in search quality (recall) with 16- and 8-bit components; we are still analyzing the 1-bit use case (binary quantization).
```

> - Reducing cost by employing disk-based ANN algorithms that use external storage (SSDs, S3, and so on).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Reducing costs by employing disk-based ANN algorithms that use external storage (SSDs, Amazon S3, and so on).
```

Vector techniques have also been less flexible than lexical techniques in many ways, so we are:

> - Improving search relevancy by supporting reranking on compressed vectors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Improving search relevance by supporting reranking on compressed vectors.
```

> - Supporting ANN vector search for the multi-tenant case, where each tenant has its own subcollection. This is especially valuable for customers each of whose user organizations has a large vector collection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Supporting ANN vector search for multi-tenant use cases, where each tenant has its own subcollection. This is especially valuable for customers each of whose user organizations has a large vector collection.
```

> - Supporting ANN vector search for the multi-tenant case, where each tenant has its own subcollection. This is especially valuable for customers each of whose user organizations has a large vector collection.

Reviewer 2: The last sentence is incorrect as written. Do we just mean something like "This is especially valuable for customers with large vector collections"?

Reviewer: Agree

### Performance benchmarking

> We are planning to update [the Big5 workload](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/tree/main/big5) mappings and settings. In particular, we'll add support for dynamic templates, configurable merge policies, match-only text, and setting the default query field as `message`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are planning to update [the Big5 workload](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/tree/main/big5) mappings and settings. In particular, we'll add support for dynamic templates, configurable merge policies, match-only text, and setting the default query field to `message`.
```

## Conclusion

While we're continuing to expand OpenSearch functionality, we are also investing in improving the performance, efficiency, and robustness of the system for every workload. In particular, vector techniques are being widely adopted both for pure semantic search and for hybrid semantic and lexical search.

> The OpenSearch team at AWS works in collaboration with the larger OpenSearch community. Without its contributions to testing, feedback, and development, OpenSearch would not be where it is today.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The OpenSearch team at AWS works in collaboration with the larger OpenSearch community. Without your contributions to testing, feedback, and development, OpenSearch would not be where it is today.
```

> The OpenSearch team at AWS works in collaboration with the larger OpenSearch community. Without its contributions to testing, feedback, and development, OpenSearch would not be where it is today.

Reviewer 2: Would it be worth adding a simple "Thank you" at the end here?

> Stay tuned to our blog and GitHub for continuous updates and insights into our progress and future plans.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Stay tuned to our blog and GitHub for further updates and insights into our progress and future plans.
```

> Stay tuned to our blog and GitHub for continuous updates and insights into our progress and future plans.

Reviewer 2: Should we provide links here?

## Appendix: Benchmark tests and results

> This section presents details on the performance benchmarks we used and the results we obtained. The data was collected using OpenSearch Benchmark to run the Big5 workload against different distributions and configurations of OpenSearch. In particular:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section provides detailed information about the performance benchmarks we used and the results we obtained. The data was collected by using OpenSearch Benchmark to run the Big5 workload against different OpenSearch distributions and configurations. In particular:
```

- We used OpenSearch Benchmark---our standard benchmarking tool---for testing. Rally might produce different results.

> - We ran each test against a single-node cluster to ensure better reproducibility and easier setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We ran each test against a single-node cluster to ensure better reproducibility and an easier setup.
```

> - The instance type was *c5.2xlarge*: 8 vCPU, 16 GB, an average instance type. Using oversized instances can conceal resource usage efficiency improvements.

Reviewer 2: Should the comma after "GB" actually be an em dash?

> - The instance type was *c5.2xlarge*: 8 vCPU, 16 GB, an average instance type. Using oversized instances can conceal resource usage efficiency improvements.

Author: ```suggestion
- The instance type was *c5.2xlarge*---8 vCPU, 16 GB---an average instance type. Using oversized instances can conceal resource usage efficiency improvements.
```

> - The Big5 index was comprised of a single shard, no replicas (run with `--workload-params="number_of_replicas:0"`).

Reviewer 2: "was comprised of a single shard, no replicas" => "comprised a single shard with no replicas"?

> - The Big5 index was comprised of a single shard, no replicas (run with `--workload-params="number_of_replicas:0"`).

Author: ```suggestion
- The Big5 index comprised a single shard with no replicas (run with `--workload-params="number_of_replicas:0"`).
```

> - During the test, we ingested data using a single bulk indexing client to ensure that data is ingested in chronological order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- During the tests, we ingested data using a single bulk indexing client to ensure that data was ingested in chronological order.
```

> - We ran the tests in [benchmarking mode](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/user-guide/target-throughput/#benchmarking-mode) (`target-throughput` was disabled) so that the OpenSearch client sends requests to the OpenSearch cluster as quickly as possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We ran the tests in [benchmarking mode](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/user-guide/target-throughput/#benchmarking-mode) (`target-throughput` was disabled) so that the OpenSearch client sent requests to the OpenSearch cluster as quickly as possible.
```

> - We configured the indexing Log Structured Merge (LSM) with LogByteSizeMergePolicy because this optimization was in place last year, prior to the blog post being published.

Reviewer 2: Should "LogByteSizeMergePolicy" be in code font? If we mean this blog post, then the last instance of "the" should be "this". I would also consider changing to "prior to the publishing of this blog post."

> - We configured the indexing Log Structured Merge (LSM) with LogByteSizeMergePolicy because this optimization was in place last year, prior to the blog post being published.

Author: ```suggestion
- We configured the indexing Log Structured Merge (LSM) with LogByteSizeMergePolicy because this optimization was in place last year, prior to the publishing of this blog post.
```

> - The corpus size of the workload was 60 GB, 70M documents. The store size after ingestion was 15 GB for the primary shard. If overhead like doc values is eliminated, Resident Set Size (RSS) should be about 8 GB, which should match the JVM heap size for the instance. Having most data resident in memory should provide a good assessment of performance improvements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The corpus size of the workload was 60 GB, 70M documents. The store size after ingestion was 15 GB for the primary shard. If overhead such as doc values is eliminated, Resident Set Size (RSS) should be about 8 GB, which should match the JVM heap size for the instance. Having most data resident in memory should provide a good assessment of performance improvements.
```

> - The corpus size of the workload was 60 GB, 70M documents. The store size after ingestion was 15 GB for the primary shard. If overhead like doc values is eliminated, Resident Set Size (RSS) should be about 8 GB, which should match the JVM heap size for the instance. Having most data resident in memory should provide a good assessment of performance improvements.

Reviewer 2: Last sentence: Should "in-memory" be hyphenated? Also, the last sentence is a bit "fluffy." Can we simplify and say something like "Having most data in-memory should provide an ideal performance assessment"?

Reviewer: Agree with - Having most data in-memory should provide an ideal performance assessment

The following table presents the latency comparison.

<!-- insert table -->

The following table presents benchmarking results by query category.

<!-- insert table -->

> If you want to run your own benchmarking tests, please share the results with us. As always, we welcome your feedback and contribution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you decide to run your own benchmarking tests, please feel free to share the results with us. As always, we welcome your feedback and contributions.
```
